a lot of the people who get involved in
this fight get involved in it for
personal reasons I got involved because
my best friend in high school amber was
killed by her husband
domestic violence affects everybody
every race every sex every gender
everybody it affects everybody every
clan is what we call it intimate partner
violence I think is the this is the
current term and you may not think that
this is a big problem in the US but it
is 15% of all violent crime is intimate
partner violence half of all women who
are killed in the u.s. are killed by a
current or former intimate partner those
numbers they're in the thousands
I think 1,600 to 2,400 where the was the
range each year that's pretty
significant from 2003 to 2008 78 percent
of the women killed at work were
murdered by a former or current intimate
partner three-quarters came out all the
ways you can get murdered at work
three-quarters of them were killed
because of domestic violence and then
the stats for murder-suicide don't
remember them exactly but I want to say
it's 80 to 90 percent thinking that
maybe using a sanitized terminology for
this isn't the right thing to do
just lead it's not as simple as just
lead women are 500 times more likely to
be killed if they're in one of these
relationships when they're just leaving
why can't they go to a friend's house
because the abuse knows the abuser is
violent
you're not going to visit that on your
extended family or friends he's gonna
come looking for you 20% of those people
killed in murder-suicides are the family
member or a friend of someone suffering
intimate partner fire if you're gonna
leave you need money and the abuser
typically controls the finances it's
part of the pattern the economic
considerations come into play you don't
want to deal with the stigma of being on
food stamps you may have kids and that
makes finding a place to go harder then
you have the social conditioning that
goes along with it as far as stigmas
gonna be a single mom you may have pets
you can't leave the pack because the
abuser is gonna kill it a lot of women
have been trained you got to fix your
man you need to stay and fix it then you
can have the fairy tale no fairy tale
has a black eye in it
we're gonna talk about honor killings
you don't know what one of these is
that's when a woman does something that
somehow disgraces the man
typically infidelity so he takes a club
beats her to death and then throws her
body in a well right now everybody's
thinking of Afghanistan or some other
place that ends in a stand that stories
about Tanya land having in Georgia a
horrifying thing about that case is that
the Supreme Court of Georgia
gave him a retrial gave the murderer a
retrial
on the grounds that the trial judge did
not allow enough testimony about her
alleged infidelity the Supreme Court of
Georgia believed that that might altered
the verdict make no mistake the fact
that he killed her was not in dispute
the fact that he dumped her body was not
a dispute just that it might have been
okay
might have been less of a crock because
at some point in the past she had slept
with someone else if that's not an honor
killing I don't know what is honor
killings and it all stems from the same
idea that the property disobeyed the
owner it's what it is that is what it is
that's where it comes from we need to
call it what it is because this is toxic
masculinity and that's the problem
that's the problem the problem is that
that fragility that insecurity in
yourself is violent that's why this is
such an issue that's why this
hyper-masculinity this false masculinity
is such a worry in modern society
because it breeds violence - the message
is the story is there's a husband and
wife husband has a substance abuse issue
came home beat up the wife her brother
sent the message the husband is
currently in jail
the question was basically should I put
boots on this guy when he gets out and
should should I beat him up if you're
not gonna kill him and you're gonna use
violence what are you gonna do
rough him up a little bit right these
guys have fragile little egos that egos
gonna take a beating too who's he gonna
take it out on it's the opposite of
protection the male protector the
problem is we've begun to associate
protection with violence that's not
necessarily the case everything that
society has has said and and conditioned
people to believe is the wrong thing you
know you've been socially conditioned to
use violence to solve problems and this
isn't just the person that sent the
message this is a lot of people and I
know there are people out there that
think I'm a pacifist of some sort I
heard that the other day that kind of
surprised me I'm not a pacifist
i've just seen enough violence to know
that violence isn't always the answer
it's not a bad thing to not be violent
that that's a good thing
in this situation if protection is the
goal what's the option get her out
when somebody's leaving an abusive
relationship that's the single most
dangerous time that's when things can
really spin out of control
women are 500 times more likely to be
killed if they're in one of these
relationships when they're just leaving
these organizations these domestic
violence shelters they facilitate that
they they lower that risk so a lot of
these networks they they operate like a
safehouse networks they you know woman
makes contact with the abuse makes
contact they roll out pick them up take
a move secure safe house secure them and
then let them restart their life because
in a lot of ways it's a complete reset
and that's one of the reasons I support
them the way I do these shelters allow
people to go to them and they're they're
really like safe houses it's very hard
to find out where the people are one of
the organizations that I am familiar
with and that I support is the shelter
or shelter house of Northwest Florida
they're extremely forward-thinking they
also make these kids that are put in
hospitals for rape victims inside the
kit is there's a few things but to me
the most important is there's fresh
clothes you know if you go to a hospital
after being sexually assaulted and
undergo rape kit now you're in a gown
you don't want to put those other
clothes back on and these kits can help
take a traumatic experience that it's
prolonged by the medical procedures and
help believe in you need that they also
have a an animal shelter because one of
the reasons that people don't leave when
they're in a situation like that is well
they're worried that the abuser will do
something to the animal so shelter house
will get rid of that reason and they
started an animal shelter - there's
gonna be a link whatever social media
platform you're seeing this on either in
the description or in the comments there
will be
link in that you'll find a way to donate
to configu whether it be money which of
course they need or an old cell phone
you know if the abuser controls the
finances that cell phone gets cut off no
communication we can make it hard to get
a job can make it hard to contact those
people who do care about you it's it's
something that can be done that's our
you have an old cell phone sitting in a
junk drawer mail it till they it means
nothing to you could save someone's life
and then there's methods to sponsor a
family there there's all kinds of things
there's certainly something for you if
you don't know we did a live stream on
YouTube
and all the money that was donated sent
an was earmarked for a specific purpose
that's specific purpose these five bags
back here we wanted to get Christmas
presents or some teens that are in a bad
way they're in a shelter so each one of
these bags has a tablet a Netflix card a
case for the tablet earbuds and a board
game of some kind this gives them a
space of their own a place that they can
kind of retreat to to process what's
going on we accomplish that goal pretty
quickly because a whole bunch of people
came together people got into comments
in the chat commenting increased
interaction brought more people in
people donated everybody whether you
sent money or not donated your time and
it made this happen while I was buying
this stuff I started wondering why I had
to one of the things you learn about
PTSD is that scent is a very very strong
trigger of memory if a company has a new
scent it seems like the ideal place to
send it to get it out on the market
not just or most these places charitable
institutions so it would be
tax-deductible it's advertising you're
doing something good and you're building
brand loyalty and they're not because
that's the world we live in at the same
time we also live in a world with the
Internet people
y'all did this in about an hour it shows
the value of individual action in
pursuit of a collective goal and I can't
thank you enough
anyway it's just a thought y'all have a
good night